archer/contexts/rendering/mystyle/README.md, before:

# ARCHER LaTeX Style System

This directory contains the modular LaTeX style files that define ARCHER's resume formatting.

## Files

### Style Files (.sty)

- **`packages.sty`** - Core LaTeX package imports (fonts, graphics, formatting)
- **`colors.sty`** - Brand color definitions for easy configuration of color schemes
- **`gencommands.sty`** - General-purpose commands and metadata
- **`pagestyles.sty`** - Header/footer configuration with professional profile
- **`tables.sty`** - Custom list environments (`itemizeAcademic`, `itemizeLL`, etc.)
- **`panels.sty`** - Text block positioning utilities
- **`symbols.sty`** - Icon/symbol definitions (FontAwesome integration)
- **`defaultspacing.sty`** - Default spacing parameters

### Assets

- **`Fonts/`** - Custom font files (e.g., `ringbearer.ttf` for decorative elements)

### Dependencies

- **`dependencies.txt`** - Required TeX Live packages for compilation (Debian/Ubuntu package names only)

## Installation

### System Dependencies

Install required LaTeX packages:

```bash
# Ubuntu/Debian - Install all dependencies at once
sudo apt-get install $(grep -v '^#' dependencies.txt | xargs)
```

### Verify Installation

Check that pdflatex can find the required packages:

```bash
pdflatex --version
kpsewhich ebgaramond.sty  # Should return a path if installed correctly
```

## Usage

These style files are loaded by resume `.tex` files using `\input` directives:

```latex
\documentclass[11pt,letterpaper]{article}

% Load ARCHER style system
\input{mystyle/packages.sty}
\input{mystyle/colors.sty}
\input{mystyle/gencommands.sty}
\input{mystyle/pagestyles.sty}
\input{mystyle/tables.sty}
\input{mystyle/symbols.sty}
\input{mystyle/panels.sty}
\input{mystyle/defaultspacing.sty}

% Rest of document...
```

## Customization

Individual resumes customize appearance through:

1. **Branding variables** (colors, professional profile, job title)
2. **Spacing adjustments** (for content density)
3. **Content** (sections, experience, projects)

All structural styling remains in these `.sty` files and should not be modified per-resume.

## Font Notes

**EB Garamond** (`ebgaramond.sty`):
- Professional serif font used for body text
- Provided by `texlive-fonts-extra` package
- Alternative: Comment out line 11 in `packages.sty` to use default LaTeX fonts

---

## Questions or Additions?

If this document does not provide sufficient information, read the actual file(s) and update this document to be more useful for the next time it is referenced.

Commit message:

feat: migrated LaTeX compiler from pdflatex to xelatex
- Changed default compiler to XeLaTeX
- Added texlive-xetex dependency for XeLaTeX support
- Added compiler-dependent encoding logic to compiler log parsing using LOG_ENCODING_BY_COMPILER constant
- Updated logger to show actual compiler name in debug output
- Updated all references to pdflatex in documentation, docstrings, and comments to be compiler-agnostic or reference xelatex

archer/contexts/rendering/mystyle/README.md, after:

# ARCHER LaTeX Style System

This directory contains the modular LaTeX style files that define ARCHER's resume formatting.

## Files

### Style Files (.sty)

- **`packages.sty`** - Core LaTeX package imports (fonts, graphics, formatting)
- **`colors.sty`** - Brand color definitions for easy configuration of color schemes
- **`gencommands.sty`** - General-purpose commands and metadata
- **`pagestyles.sty`** - Header/footer configuration with professional profile
- **`tables.sty`** - Custom list environments (`itemizeAcademic`, `itemizeLL`, etc.)
- **`panels.sty`** - Text block positioning utilities
- **`symbols.sty`** - Icon/symbol definitions (FontAwesome integration)
- **`defaultspacing.sty`** - Default spacing parameters

### Assets

- **`Fonts/`** - Custom font files (e.g., `ringbearer.ttf` for decorative elements)

### Dependencies

- **`dependencies.txt`** - Required TeX Live packages for compilation (Debian/Ubuntu package names only)

## Installation

### System Dependencies

Install required LaTeX packages:

```bash
# Ubuntu/Debian - Install all dependencies at once
sudo apt-get install $(grep -v '^#' dependencies.txt | xargs)
```

### Verify Installation

Check that your LaTeX compiler can find the required packages:

```bash
xelatex --version
# pdflatex --version  # If using pdflatex
kpsewhich ebgaramond.sty  # Should return a path if installed correctly
```

## Usage

These style files are loaded by resume `.tex` files using `\input` directives:

```latex
\documentclass[11pt,letterpaper]{article}

% Load ARCHER style system
\input{mystyle/packages.sty}
\input{mystyle/colors.sty}
\input{mystyle/gencommands.sty}
\input{mystyle/pagestyles.sty}
\input{mystyle/tables.sty}
\input{mystyle/symbols.sty}
\input{mystyle/panels.sty}
\input{mystyle/defaultspacing.sty}

% Rest of document...
```

## Customization

Individual resumes customize appearance through:

1. **Branding variables** (colors, professional profile, job title)
2. **Spacing adjustments** (for content density)
3. **Content** (sections, experience, projects)

All structural styling remains in these `.sty` files and should not be modified per-resume.

## Font Notes

**EB Garamond** (`ebgaramond.sty`):
- Professional serif font used for body text
- Provided by `texlive-fonts-extra` package
- Alternative: Comment out line 11 in `packages.sty` to use default LaTeX fonts

---

## Questions or Additions?

If this document does not provide sufficient information, read the actual file(s) and update this document to be more useful for the next time it is referenced.
